The dynamic single farm model FarmDyn  presents a framework which allows simulating farm management and investment decisions under changes in boundary conditions such as prices or policy instruments, for a wide range of different farming systems found in Germany and beyond. Given the complex interplay of management and investment decisions - such as adjustments of herd sizes, crop shares and yields, feeding practices, fertiliser management and manure treatment -- FarmDyn is implemented as a fully dynamic bio-economic simulation model template building on Mixed-Integer Programming. It is complemented by a Graphical User Interface (GUI) to steer simulations and to exploit results.

The framework is the outcome of several research activities. Its first version (named DAIRYDYN) was developed in the context of a research project financed by the German Science Foundation focusing in marginal abatement costs of dairy farms. The project contributed the overall concept and the highly detailed description of dairy farming and GHG accounting, while it had only a rudimentary module for arable cropping. This early version of the model was used by Garbert (2013) as the starting point to develop a module to depict pig farms, however with less detailed feeding options compared to the cattle module. Garbert also developed a first phosphate accounting module. Activities in spring 2013 for a scientific paper (Remble et al. 2013) contributed a first version with arable crops differentiated by intensity level and tillage type, along with a more detailed machinery module which also considered plot size and mechanization and their respective effect on costs and labour needs. Based on nitrogen response functions, nitrogen loss factors were differentiated for the different intensity and related yield levels. After these extensions the model was renamed to FarmDyn (farm dynamic). David Schäfer, then a master student, developed in 2014 a bio-gas module for the model which reflects the German renewable energy legislation. In 2016, an extension allowing for stochastic programming was added. Since then FarmDyn is a substantial part of several ongoing research projects across Europe. The existing modules are therefore under constant revision and supplemented by new ones.
